>> Kevin Powell: So
to create the filtering,
we could include this
in our main file here.
So if you wanna do that,
that's completely fine.
I'm just gonna do it in a separate file
'cuz that way, for our own purposes,
it keeps it more organized.
We won't get mixed up with the two
different bits of JavaScript that
are going on.
Plus, we only need it on this page anyway.
So we can just do mushroom-filtering.js,
or maybe mushroom-filter.js.
And [LAUGH] as usual,
never forget when you do this,
that you wanna go back and
make sure you add the link to that file.
So, we can come all the way back up.
I have this script here.
Let's just close that for a second.
And I can come in with another script,
src="/mushroom-filter, and I can defer it.
Now, in here,
we're gonna need three different
things that we're gonna need to get.
The first one is we need
to get all of the cards,
cuz we're gonna need to look at those
cards to be able to filter them.
So we need to say const cards and
document.querySelectorAll.
In the last time we did it, it was a query
selector cuz we only needed one element.
This time, I need a lot of elements,
so I'm gonna get all.
And on this page,
we have more than one set of cards.
I have these cards here, but
our Bento, we also use cards as well.
But this is always just a CSS selector,
and we have that mushroom guide parent.
So I can say '.mushroom.guide
space .card', and
it scopes that selector or
the variable there.
So we're only getting the cards that
are inside of our mushroom guide.
The other thing we need to get is we
need to know what's selected from our
two selects here.
So to be able to do that,
we can come in with a const of,
we'll do a seasonalFilter is going to
be equal to document.querySelector.
And for that, I just recently put that id
on there, so we can do the id of #season.
And const edibleFilter =
document.querySelector and
the id of #edible on that one right there.
Before we do anything else,
we need to keep track of which filters
are actually selected at any
given time with JavaScript.
So the easiest thing to do, in my opinion,
is to create an object at the beginning
that will update to be able
to keep track of those.
So we can call that our
current filter currentFilters,
cuz we have two different filters.
And this looks a bit different, but
we're gonna do it like that
with the curly braces.
So we're creating an object that we can
store different information inside of.
And season by default will be all,
right, cuz we have all of our seasons.
That's the first one
that will always be on.
Don't put a semicolon, put a comma here.
I always put semicolons,
and it gets me in trouble.
And then we can say,
whoops, edible is also all,
cuz that's the default filters
that we're starting with.
So we have our cards,
we're selecting all of them.
We have each one of the two
filters just so we have them,
that we can be able to access
the information in there.
And then we're saying, currently, when the
page first loads and the JavaScript fires,
we have a season of all and
an edible of all.
So our filters are currently
showing us everything.
To look quickly at what we can do with
this, let's grab that seasonalFilter.
And we saw this earlier,
we can add an event listener.
Last time we looked at
the addEventListener, we did a click and
then we did the function here.
So we're not gonna keep the click,
but I'll set it up like this.
The reason we don't wanna do it as a click
is cuz that means when I click on it,
it's gonna do this function
that we're putting in there.
And if I do that every time I click,
it means it's firing when
I'm opening it as well.
And the click, just so you know,
if I'm using space bar to open it,
the click is still firing there, and
that just doesn't seem like the right
type of way to approach it.
So another event listener that
we can put here is change.
And what change is doing is it's looking
for when, if I click on Seasons and
then I just select the same one or
I click away, nothing's changed, so
the event listener doesn't do anything.
If I come here and
I actually change what's selected,
now, we're gonna do whatever
we're doing within this function.
Again, an easy way to
be able to adjust this.
What we can do is we can
look at this current filter.
So we could come here and we could say
that the currentFilters, and we're doing
our seasonalFilter, so I can say the
season is going to be equal to something.
And what I wanted to get is the value
of whatever I've clicked in here.
Cuz if you remember when we set this up
in the select, let's just do it, select,
we gave each one of these a value, and
we can get that value when it's selected.
To be able to do that, when we have
our function that's going here,
I'm gonna put an event, just so
we're able to use the event.
So whenever it changes, and
we'll see what this event is in a second,
we're gonna use that event and
get where we're getting from it.
Or actually, let's see what the event
is before we do this next step, just so
it makes a bit of sense if
you haven't done this before.
So we can console.log the event
itself that's happening.
We'll inspect on there.
Let me just move this down to the bottom.
>> Kevin Powell: We'll jump on over to
my console and we'll go find my select.
And if I do spring,
you can see the event fires.
So it's saying here's the event, and
it's giving me all this information
that I can get from it.
The type was changed,
cuz that's what we were looking for.
So that makes sense that that's
what we're getting here.
And there's lots of different
stuff that we can grab.
And one of those things is the actual
trusted, type, target, and
there's all this information.
But one thing we can get from it,
it's with the target there.
So we can see there's a target,
is our season.
So if we say event.target and
I go and I choose Spring,
you see I'm getting the id of season.
And there's all this other
stuff that's in there.
And we can get the one that was selected
by coming on here and saying .value.
And if I have that, when I click Spring,
you can see it's grabbing the spring.
It's not grabbing it
because of the text here,
it's grabbing it because that was
the value that we had on the option.
So if I go to Summer,
we get summer coming through here.
So what I wanna do is use
that event.target filter.
We don't need any console.log anymore.
We wanna say that the current filter,
the season,
instead of being all, is now equal to
that value that we had right there.
So if I do that, and then we do
a console.log again, but we do it for
our currentFilters, if I change to Spring,
you can see now the season is 'spring',
edible: 'all'.
If I change the edible to toxic, we should
see, I didn't set one on that one yet,.
We can change the season though, Summer,
and we can change to the fall, and
it's coming up to the fall.
So we're updating the current filter every
time that we choose something there.
Now, one thing we could do is,
as we just realized,
we don't have anything on this side for
that filter.
So the option that we have here is
actually to take all of this, copy it,
paste it, and then do the exact
same thing for the other filter.
Whenever you do that, especially in
JavaScript, same thing in CSS, though,
if we can make something more generic,
that's usually a good idea.
Just cuz if then ever you need to update
it, you're only updating it once.
So anytime you need to do the same thing
twice, it's probably a good idea to see
if you can find a way to make something
more generic that can work for
either one of them.
So that's what we're gonna do next.